README.md, before:

# geo [![CI](https://github.com/pchchv/geo/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/pchchv/geo/actions?query=workflow%3ACI+event%3Apush) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/pchchv/geo)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/pchchv/geo) [![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/pchchv/geo.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/pchchv/geo)

Package *geo* defines a set of types for working with 2D geo and planar/projected geometric data in Golang.

## Features
- **GeoJSON** - support as part of the [`geojson`](geojson) sub-package.
- **Simple types** - allow for natural operations using the `make`, `append`, `len`, `[s:e]` builtins.
- **DB integration** - dDirect to type from DB query results by scanning WKB data directly into types.
- **Mapbox Vector Tile** - encoding and decoding as part of the [`encoding/mvt`](encoding/mvt) sub-package.

## Types

```go
type Point [2]float64
type MultiPoint []Point

type LineString []Point
type MultiLineString []LineString

type Ring LineString
type Polygon []Ring
type MultiPolygon []Polygon

type Collection []Geometry

type Bound struct { Min, Max Point }
```

Defining types as slices allows them to be accessed idiomatically using Go's built-in functions such as `make`, `append`, `len`.  
And also by using slice designators such as `[s:e]` e.g.:

```go
ls := make(geo.LineString, 0, 100)
ls = append(ls, geo.Point{1, 1})
point := ls[0]
```

### Shared `Geometry` interface

All of the base types implement the `geo.Geometry` interface defined as:

```go
type Geometry interface {
    GeoJSONType() string
    Dimensions() int // e.g. 0d, 1d, 2d
    Bound() Bound
}
```

This interface is accepted by functions in the sub-packages which then act on the base types correctly, e. g.:

```go
l := clip.Geometry(bound, geom)
```

will use the appropriate clipping algorithm depending on if the input is 1d or 2d, e.g. a `geo.LineString` or a `geo.Polygon`.

Only a few methods are defined directly on these type, for example `Clone`, `Equal`, `GeoJSONType`.  
Other operation that depend on geo vs. planar contexts are defined in the respective sub-package.  
For example:

- Computing the geo distance between two point:

  ```go
  p1 := geo.Point{-72.796408, -45.407131}
  p2 := geo.Point{-72.688541, -45.384987}

  geo.Distance(p1, p2)
  ```

- Compute the planar area and centroid of a polygon:

  ```go
  poly := geo.Polygon{...}
  centroid, area := planar.CentroidArea(poly)
  ```

## GeoJSON

The [geojson](geojson) sub-package implements Marshalling and Unmarshalling of GeoJSON data.  
Features are defined as:

```go
type Feature struct {
    ID         interface{}  `json:"id,omitempty"`
    Type       string       `json:"type"`
    Geometry   geo.Geometry `json:"geometry"`
    Properties Properties   `json:"properties"`
}
```

Defining geometry as the `geo.Geometry` interface, along with the subpackage functions of the accepting geometries, allows them to work together to create usable code.  
For example, clipping all the geometries in a collection:

```go
fc, err := geojson.UnmarshalFeatureCollection(data)
for _, f := range fc {
    f.Geometry = clip.Geometry(bound, f.Geometry)
}
```

Package supports third party "encoding/json" replacements such [github.com/json-iterator/go](https://github.com/json-iterator/go).  
See the [geojson](geojson) readme for more details.

Types also support BSON so they can be used directly when working with MongoDB.

## Mapbox Vector Tiles

The [encoding/mvt](encoding/mvt) sub-package implements Marshalling and
Unmarshalling [MVT](https://www.mapbox.com/vector-tiles/) data.
This package uses sets of `geojson.FeatureCollection` to define the layers,
keyed by the layer name. For example:

```go
collections := map[string]*geojson.FeatureCollection{}

// Convert to a layers object and project to tile coordinates.
layers := mvt.NewLayers(collections)
layers.ProjectToTile(maptile.New(x, y, z))

// In order to be used as source for MapboxGL geometries need to be clipped
// to max allowed extent. (uncomment next line)
// layers.Clip(mvt.MapboxGLDefaultExtentBound)

// Simplifier the geometry now that it's in tile coordinate space.
layers.Simplifier(simplifier.DouglasPeucker(1.0))

// Depending on use-case remove empty geometry, those too small to be
// represented in this tile space.
// In this case lines shorter than 1, and areas smaller than 2.
layers.RemoveEmpty(1.0, 2.0)

// encoding using the Mapbox Vector Tile protobuf encoding.
data, err := mvt.Marshal(layers) // this data is NOT gzipped.

// Sometimes MVT data is stored and transfered gzip compressed. In that case:
data, err := mvt.MarshalGzipped(layers)
```

## List of subpackage utilities

- [`clip`](clip) - clipping geometry to a bounding box
- [`geojson`](geojson) - working with geojson and the types in this package
- [`geometries`](geometries) - defines common 2d geometries
- [`maptile`](maptile) - working with mercator map tiles and quadkeys
- [`planar`](planar) - area and distance calculations
- [`project`](project) - project geometries between geo and planar contexts
- [`quadtree`](quadtree) - quadtree implementation using the types in this package
- [`resample`](resample) - resample points in a line string geometry
- [`simplifier`](simplifier) - linear geometry simplifications like Douglas-Peucker
- [`tilecover`](tilecover) - computes the covering set of tiles
- [`encoding/mvt`](encoding/mvt) - encoded and decoding from [Mapbox Vector Tiles](https://www.mapbox.com/vector-tiles/)
- [`encoding/wkb`](encoding/wkb) - well-known binary as well as helpers to decode from the database queries

Commit message:

Add the encoding/ewkb package

README.md, after:

# geo [![CI](https://github.com/pchchv/geo/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/pchchv/geo/actions?query=workflow%3ACI+event%3Apush) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/pchchv/geo)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/pchchv/geo) [![Go Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/pchchv/geo.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/pchchv/geo)

Package *geo* defines a set of types for working with 2D geo and planar/projected geometric data in Golang.

## Features
- **GeoJSON** - support as part of the [`geojson`](geojson) sub-package.
- **Simple types** - allow for natural operations using the `make`, `append`, `len`, `[s:e]` builtins.
- **DB integration** - dDirect to type from DB query results by scanning WKB data directly into types.
- **Mapbox Vector Tile** - encoding and decoding as part of the [`encoding/mvt`](encoding/mvt) sub-package.

## Types

```go
type Point [2]float64
type MultiPoint []Point

type LineString []Point
type MultiLineString []LineString

type Ring LineString
type Polygon []Ring
type MultiPolygon []Polygon

type Collection []Geometry

type Bound struct { Min, Max Point }
```

Defining types as slices allows them to be accessed idiomatically using Go's built-in functions such as `make`, `append`, `len`.  
And also by using slice designators such as `[s:e]` e.g.:

```go
ls := make(geo.LineString, 0, 100)
ls = append(ls, geo.Point{1, 1})
point := ls[0]
```

### Shared `Geometry` interface

All of the base types implement the `geo.Geometry` interface defined as:

```go
type Geometry interface {
    GeoJSONType() string
    Dimensions() int // e.g. 0d, 1d, 2d
    Bound() Bound
}
```

This interface is accepted by functions in the sub-packages which then act on the base types correctly, e. g.:

```go
l := clip.Geometry(bound, geom)
```

will use the appropriate clipping algorithm depending on if the input is 1d or 2d, e.g. a `geo.LineString` or a `geo.Polygon`.

Only a few methods are defined directly on these type, for example `Clone`, `Equal`, `GeoJSONType`.  
Other operation that depend on geo vs. planar contexts are defined in the respective sub-package.  
For example:

- Computing the geo distance between two point:

  ```go
  p1 := geo.Point{-72.796408, -45.407131}
  p2 := geo.Point{-72.688541, -45.384987}

  geo.Distance(p1, p2)
  ```

- Compute the planar area and centroid of a polygon:

  ```go
  poly := geo.Polygon{...}
  centroid, area := planar.CentroidArea(poly)
  ```

## GeoJSON

The [geojson](geojson) sub-package implements Marshalling and Unmarshalling of GeoJSON data.  
Features are defined as:

```go
type Feature struct {
    ID         interface{}  `json:"id,omitempty"`
    Type       string       `json:"type"`
    Geometry   geo.Geometry `json:"geometry"`
    Properties Properties   `json:"properties"`
}
```

Defining geometry as the `geo.Geometry` interface, along with the subpackage functions of the accepting geometries, allows them to work together to create usable code.  
For example, clipping all the geometries in a collection:

```go
fc, err := geojson.UnmarshalFeatureCollection(data)
for _, f := range fc {
    f.Geometry = clip.Geometry(bound, f.Geometry)
}
```

Package supports third party "encoding/json" replacements such [github.com/json-iterator/go](https://github.com/json-iterator/go).  
See the [geojson](geojson) readme for more details.

Types also support BSON so they can be used directly when working with MongoDB.

## Mapbox Vector Tiles

The [encoding/mvt](encoding/mvt) sub-package implements Marshalling and
Unmarshalling [MVT](https://www.mapbox.com/vector-tiles/) data.
This package uses sets of `geojson.FeatureCollection` to define the layers,
keyed by the layer name. For example:

```go
collections := map[string]*geojson.FeatureCollection{}

// Convert to a layers object and project to tile coordinates.
layers := mvt.NewLayers(collections)
layers.ProjectToTile(maptile.New(x, y, z))

// In order to be used as source for MapboxGL geometries need to be clipped
// to max allowed extent. (uncomment next line)
// layers.Clip(mvt.MapboxGLDefaultExtentBound)

// Simplifier the geometry now that it's in tile coordinate space.
layers.Simplifier(simplifier.DouglasPeucker(1.0))

// Depending on use-case remove empty geometry, those too small to be
// represented in this tile space.
// In this case lines shorter than 1, and areas smaller than 2.
layers.RemoveEmpty(1.0, 2.0)

// encoding using the Mapbox Vector Tile protobuf encoding.
data, err := mvt.Marshal(layers) // this data is NOT gzipped.

// Sometimes MVT data is stored and transfered gzip compressed. In that case:
data, err := mvt.MarshalGzipped(layers)
```

## Decoding WKB/EWKB from a database query

Geometries are usually returned from databases in WKB or EWKB format. The [encoding/ewkb](encoding/ewkb) sub-package offers helpers to "scan" the data into the base types directly.
For example:

```go
db.Exec(
  "INSERT INTO postgis_table (point_column) VALUES (ST_GeomFromEWKB(?))",
  ewkb.Value(geo.Point{1, 2}, 4326),
)

row := db.QueryRow("SELECT ST_AsBinary(point_column) FROM postgis_table")

var p geo.Point
err := row.Scan(ewkb.Scanner(&p))
```

For more information see the readme in the [encoding/ewkb](encoding/ewkb) package.

## List of subpackage utilities

- [`clip`](clip) - clipping geometry to a bounding box
- [`encoding/mvt`](encoding/mvt) - encoded and decoding from [Mapbox Vector Tiles](https://www.mapbox.com/vector-tiles/)
- [`encoding/ewkb`](encoding/ewkb) - extended well-known binary format that includes the SRID
- [`encoding/wkb`](encoding/wkb) - well-known binary as well as helpers to decode from the database queries
- [`geojson`](geojson) - working with geojson and the types in this package
- [`geometries`](geometries) - defines common 2d geometries
- [`maptile`](maptile) - working with mercator map tiles and quadkeys
- [`planar`](planar) - area and distance calculations
- [`project`](project) - project geometries between geo and planar contexts
- [`quadtree`](quadtree) - quadtree implementation using the types in this package
- [`resample`](resample) - resample points in a line string geometry
- [`simplifier`](simplifier) - linear geometry simplifications like Douglas-Peucker
- [`tilecover`](tilecover) - computes the covering set of tiles
